docs(AI): add AI development tools page and replace stale references (#4991)
patternfly/patternfly-org: packages/documentation-site/patternfly-docs/content/AI/ai-development-tools/ai-development-tools.md

---

> id: AI development tools

Reviewer: I would be curious on @edonehoo's thoughts on the title of this page - Is 'Plugins' more descriptive?

Reviewer 2: I like Plugins -- I think it's more generally aligned since (I assume) we expect more than just devs to use the plugins we're creating

Reviewer 2: or "AI helpers"

Author: "Development tools" doesn't imply a developer-only audience. It just means tools that help you develop things with AI. Designers prototyping in code, managers evaluating tooling, and developers building UIs are all "developing" something. 

"Plugins" is actually more technical/developer-specific as a term - I think it assumes you already know what a plugin is and how it fits into a tool like Claude Code or Cursor.

Author: I am more open to "AI Helpers" here, but I think it assumes familiarity with the repo name. Would someone landing on this page for the first time know what a "helper" is in this context?

Author: Spoke about this in slack with @edonehoo - Updated to "Marketplace" - which appropriately sums up exactly what AI helpers consists of at this point - so its more pointed and the intro paragraph describes what the marketplace represents for us.

section: AI
sortValue: 3
---

> The [PatternFly AI helpers](https://github.com/patternfly/ai-helpers) marketplace is an open source collection of plugins for AI coding tools like [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) and [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com/). These plugins provide development knowledge and skills tailored to PatternFly workflows, so your AI tools generate more accurate, best-practice code out of the box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [PatternFly AI helpers](https://github.com/patternfly/ai-helpers) marketplace is an open source collection of **plugins** for AI coding tools like [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) and [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com/). These plugins provide models with knowledge and skills that are tailored to PatternFly workflows, so your AI tools can generate more accurate solutions that follow our best practices.
```

you may want to keep this as "generate more accurate code" in the final sentence -- I was thinking that some of our plugins aren't directly tied to code all the time

> The [PatternFly AI helpers](https://github.com/patternfly/ai-helpers) marketplace is an open source collection of plugins for AI coding tools like [Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) and [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com/). These plugins provide development knowledge and skills tailored to PatternFly workflows, so your AI tools generate more accurate, best-practice code out of the box.

Reviewer 2: would you want to "brand" this as "AI Helpers" capitalized as a proper noun? Or do you like it how it is? It might make things easier to read if it's a proper noun, but I'll leave it to you

Author: I think capitalizing the "H" makes sense - so I will update.

> Whether you're building PatternFly UIs, prototyping in code, or evaluating AI tooling for your team, AI helpers can help.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whether you're building PatternFly UIs, prototyping in code, or evaluating AI tooling for your team, our AI helpers can simplify and enhance your experience.
```

this is a curiosity nit - but what would be the difference between building PatternFly UIs vs prototyping in code? Like Red Hat products vs random experimental prototypes?

> With AI helpers installed, you can expect:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With AI helpers installed, you can expect a few benefits when using generative AI:
```

maybe?

- More consistent use of PatternFly components and patterns.
- Faster prototyping and development cycles.
- Fewer common implementation mistakes.
- Built-in awareness of PatternFly coding standards, accessibility, and design tokens.

> ## What's available

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What plugins are available?
```

> The marketplace is organized into plugins, each focused on a different area of PatternFly development. Here's what's currently available at a high level:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The AI helpers marketplace is organized into plugins, each focused on a different area of PatternFly:
```

| Plugin | What it helps you do |
| :--- | :--- |
| **React** | Build and test React components following PatternFly coding standards and component structure best practices. |
| **Design foundations** | Work with design tokens, icons, colors, and spacing. Audit and validate token usage. |
| **Accessibility** | Audit and document accessibility across your project. |
| **Figma** | Review Figma design changes and generate code update checklists. |
| **Issue management** | Create, triage, and track issues across PatternFly repositories. Primarily for PatternFly maintainers. |

> | **Repo management** | Manage releases, analyze dependencies, and maintain repository health. Primarily for PatternFly maintainers. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Plugin | Usage |
| :--- | :--- |
| **React** | Build and test React components that adhere to PatternFly coding standards and structural best practices. |
| **Design foundations** | Audit and validate usage of design tokens, icons, colors, and spacing. |
| **Accessibility** | Audit and document accessibility compliance or concerns across your project. |
| **Figma** | Review Figma design changes and generate code update checklists. |
| **Issue management** | (Primarily for PatternFly maintainers) Create, triage, and track issues across PatternFly repositories. |
| **Repo management** | (Primarily for PatternFly maintainers) Manage releases, analyze dependencies, and maintain repository health. |
```

Author: Removed the table — every time we add or rename a plugin in ai-helpers, we'd need a separate PR here to keep this in sync. The PLUGINS.md catalog is auto-generated on every merge, so it's always current. The paragraph + link keeps this page low-maintenance while still giving people a sense of what's available.

> Plugins are actively maintained and evolving. For the full, always-current list of every skill and agent available, see the [plugin catalog](https://github.com/patternfly/ai-helpers/blob/main/PLUGINS.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are actively maintaining and evolving our plugins based on the needs of our maintainers and users. For the current list of plugins, view our [plugin catalog](https://github.com/patternfly/ai-helpers/blob/main/PLUGINS.md).
```

> ## Getting started

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Get started
```

### Claude Code

```bash
# Add the marketplace
/plugin marketplace add patternfly/ai-helpers

# Install the plugins you need
/plugin install react@ai-helpers
```

> After installation, the plugin's skills and knowledge are available in any project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
adding to list

### Cursor

Cursor can discover plugins from `.cursor-plugin/` directories. If you also have Claude Code installed, Cursor may pick up installed plugins automatically via its third-party plugin settings. See the [AI helpers README](https://github.com/patternfly/ai-helpers#cursor) for details.

### PatternFly MCP server (recommended)

> For the best experience, also set up the [PatternFly MCP server](https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-mcp), which gives AI tools direct access to PatternFly component documentation, prop schemas, and design guidelines. Plugins work without it, but provide stronger results when it's available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

maybe moving this?

> ## Contributing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How can I contribute a plugin? 
```

> The AI helpers marketplace is open source and welcomes contributions from the community. Whether you want to add a new skill to an existing plugin, create an entirely new plugin, or improve the documentation that AI tools rely on, there's a place for your contribution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The PatternFly AI helpers marketplace is open source and welcomes contributions from our community. Whether you want to add a new skill to an existing plugin, create an entirely new plugin, or improve the documentation that AI tools rely on, there's a place for your contribution.
```
